# FAA Rotary Wing Hover Analysis
## Overview

The capabilities of flight data monitoring software and sensors provide an increasing amount of data collection to better assess pilot inputs, aircraft flight parameters, and flight profiling for rotary wing aircraft. Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders have long been used in accident investigations for fixed wing aircraft. Analysis of these sensors assist investigators and researchers in making aircraft safety improvements both physically and procedurally. Pilot training is largely reliant on a human instructor pilot assessing pilot skills in a pass or fail type of adjudication. Utilizing data from flight data monitoring can reduce the subjectivity of these assessments and create a more consistent expectation for pilot quality and ability. To construct an analytical and data-based approach of evaluating and scoring maneuvers, a method to identify maneuvers within the thousands of datapoints collected throughout a flight must first be created. Previous research focused on phases of flights, using decision trees as the process of classification. This paper builds on previous research to identify the time periods of a flight where the aircraft is in a hovering flight profile and particular hover maneuvers within ground effect, or low altitude. This paper focuses on three common data analytic approaches to classify a hovering flight profile and two specific maneuvers conducted while hovering: a data analytics approach focused on the physical definitions of maneuvers, a machine learning approach, and a deep learning approach. The physics-based model employs user defined specifications to classify datapoints as a hovering maneuver or non-hovering profile. The machine learning and deep learning methods use a supervised learning approach. The machine learning approach analyzes each individual data point without the memory of the previous data point and the deep learning approach analyzes data-points in order of the maneuver being performed. The results of the analytical predictions are then compared to the timestamps from the pilot’s flight logs. The models return accuracies between 90-95% for Hover and Hover maneuver predictions. This research can further be extended to additional maneuvers performed by rotorcraft pilots and is not limited to the hover maneuver. 

This repo contains three approaches and models. 

- Data Analytics Approach - This approach and model uses user defined inputs to essentially manually construct a decision tree. It is easily applicable to any aircraft or environmental condition as it relies on physics to define the maneuver. The downside is the model is reliant on user defined parameters to define each maneuver. 

- Machine Learning Model with Support Vector Machine - 

- LSTM Deep Learning Model - 

- Data: Data for one of the flights(07JUL) is stored in a zipped folder in this repo due to the size of individual data files. 
